# Go API client for vatstack

A suite of VAT APIs which let you validate VAT numbers with government services, look up VAT rates by ISO country code, calculate price quotes with centralized VAT rules and store transactions with each sale for VAT reporting.

## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 1.3.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```shell
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```golang
import vatstack "github.com/jgillich/vatstack-client-go"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```golang
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `sw.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), vatstack.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `sw.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), vatstack.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `sw.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `sw.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), vatstack.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), vatstack.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://api.vatstack.com/v1*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*DefaultApi* | [**CreateBatch**](docs/DefaultApi.md#createbatch) | **Post** /batches | Creates a batch object.
*DefaultApi* | [**CreateEvidence**](docs/DefaultApi.md#createevidence) | **Post** /evidences | Creates an evidence object.
*DefaultApi* | [**CreateQuote**](docs/DefaultApi.md#createquote) | **Post** /quotes | Creates a quote object.
*DefaultApi* | [**CreateSupply**](docs/DefaultApi.md#createsupply) | **Post** /supplies | Creates a supply object.
*DefaultApi* | [**CreateValidation**](docs/DefaultApi.md#createvalidation) | **Post** /validations | Creates a validation object.
*DefaultApi* | [**DeleteBatchById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#deletebatchbyid) | **Delete** /batches/{id} | Deletes a batch object by the {id} path parameter.
*DefaultApi* | [**DeleteSupplyById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#deletesupplybyid) | **Delete** /supplies/{id} | Deletes a supply object by the {id} path parameter.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllBatches**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallbatches) | **Get** /batches | Retrieves all batch objects in order of creation, with the latest appearing highest.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllEvidences**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallevidences) | **Get** /evidences | Retrieves all evidence objects in order of creation, with the latest appearing highest.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllHits**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallhits) | **Get** /hits | This endpoint can be useful if you want to perform a quick check against your hits count before initiating an API request.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllQuotes**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallquotes) | **Get** /quotes | Retrieves all quote objects in order of creation, with the most recent appearing highest.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllRates**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallrates) | **Get** /rates | Retrieves all VAT rate objects, including standard VAT rates and VAT rates for digital products.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllSupplies**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallsupplies) | **Get** /supplies | Retrieves all supply objects in order of creation, with the most recent appearing highest.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetAllValidations**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getallvalidations) | **Get** /validations | Retrieves all validation objects in order of creation, with the most recent appearing highest.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetBatchById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getbatchbyid) | **Get** /batches/{id} | Retrieves a batch object by the {id} path parameter.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetEvidenceById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getevidencebyid) | **Get** /evidences/{id} | Retrieves an evidence object by the {id} path parameter.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetQuoteById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getquotebyid) | **Get** /quotes/{id} | Retrieves a quote object.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetRateByIPAddress**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getratebyipaddress) | **Get** /rates/geolocate | Retrieves a geolocated VAT rate by IP address.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetSupplyById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getsupplybyid) | **Get** /supplies/{id} | Retrieves a supply object.
*DefaultApi* | [**GetValidationById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#getvalidationbyid) | **Get** /validations/{id} | Retrieves a validation object.
*DefaultApi* | [**UpdateBatchById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#updatebatchbyid) | **Put** /batches/{id} | Updates a batch object by the {id} path parameter.
*DefaultApi* | [**UpdateEvidenceById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#updateevidencebyid) | **Put** /evidences/{id} | Updates an evidence object by the {id} path parameter.
*DefaultApi* | [**UpdateSupplyById**](docs/DefaultApi.md#updatesupplybyid) | **Put** /supplies/{id} | Updates a supply object by the {id} path parameter.


## Documentation For Models

 - [Batch](docs/Batch.md)
 - [Evidence](docs/Evidence.md)
 - [EvidenceBankAddress](docs/EvidenceBankAddress.md)
 - [EvidenceBillingAddress](docs/EvidenceBillingAddress.md)
 - [EvidenceIpAddress](docs/EvidenceIpAddress.md)
 - [GetAllBatches200Response](docs/GetAllBatches200Response.md)
 - [GetAllEvidences200Response](docs/GetAllEvidences200Response.md)
 - [GetAllQuotes200Response](docs/GetAllQuotes200Response.md)
 - [GetAllRates200Response](docs/GetAllRates200Response.md)
 - [GetAllSupplies200Response](docs/GetAllSupplies200Response.md)
 - [GetAllValidations200Response](docs/GetAllValidations200Response.md)
 - [Hit](docs/Hit.md)
 - [HitSupplies](docs/HitSupplies.md)
 - [HitValidations](docs/HitValidations.md)
 - [ModelError](docs/ModelError.md)
 - [Quote](docs/Quote.md)
 - [QuoteVat](docs/QuoteVat.md)
 - [Rate](docs/Rate.md)
 - [RateCategories](docs/RateCategories.md)
 - [Supply](docs/Supply.md)
 - [SupplyVat](docs/SupplyVat.md)
 - [Validation](docs/Validation.md)


## Documentation For Authorization



### publicKey

- **Type**: API key
- **API key parameter name**: X-API-KEY
- **Location**: HTTP header

Note, each API key must be added to a map of `map[string]APIKey` where the key is: X-API-KEY and passed in as the auth context for each request.


### secretKey

- **Type**: API key
- **API key parameter name**: X-API-KEY
- **Location**: HTTP header

Note, each API key must be added to a map of `map[string]APIKey` where the key is: X-API-KEY and passed in as the auth context for each request.


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author

team@vatstack.com

